We're gonna go into terminology, so
it's a little bit different, right?
Some of the things I'm gonna say
might mean something to you, but
they might not mean the same
thing inside of them.
For fun up here,
I actually linked something right here.
If you have the time at some point, check
out this video it's actually how files
work it's by Live Overflow,
pretty fantastic.
But just because I say the word file,
it might not mean the same thing
to me as it does to you just so
you know, but I'm gonna try to go over
everything that will work for both of us.
All right, so what is a buffer?
A buffer, some people will probably say is
a node class that contains ones and zeros.
You're right, not in this context,
but you're definitely right.
A buffer in VIM is effectively how I like
to think of it is a representation of
the file in memory.
If you edit that buffer, it does not
mean you edit the file directly,
you're editing a buffer.
When you write the buffer, you
are writing that buffer to the file and
replacing it with whatever
the contents is inside of the buffer.
You can do help buffer, I'm gonna
try to drill this in all the time.
There is a help menu for
literally everything and
so if I were to jump in here and
go help buffer.
It will give me a bunch of stuff
about buffers, commands I can do,
all sorts of stuff so
it is completely available, remember that.
A window, a window is simply
something that displays a buffer.
Now that is pretty much all it is,
you can close a window and the underlying
buffer can remain in memory but
the windows closed you no longer see it.
Tabs are like another viewport, it's
not like a tab in VS Code where we have
a bunch of little files opened as tabs.
Tab is another kind of viewport into VIM,
you can have multiple windows into it,
you can have a lot of splits,
it's a separate workspace as I've
heard some people refer to it as.
I personally am not a tab guy,
I try to get into tabs, [SOUND] it just,
[SOUND] I really want them to workout,
but I just ended up just hating them.
You can definitely explore them see
how they feel see what they're like.
A split, is simply just splitting
a window that's all it is.
I can kind of show you a couple of
these splits really quickly, so
if I were to type in the word new,
I actually create a brand new buffer.
Now this thing is split horizontally,
you can tell it's split
horizontally by the way it is.
In other words,
the line is the direction that determines
what type of split this is, so
this is a horizontal split.
If I were to do vino,
it would split it vertically, so
this is a brand new
buffer up this direction.
It's a brand new buffer on this
side that is split vertically,
it's by the line, remember that.
So every application seems to
do it a little bit differently,
I think i3 my Window Manager has vertical
split the opposite of what it is VIM you
just gotta learn what it is.
So just remember it's the lines
the direction of the line.
And here's some other terminology that
I think is really important, which is,
I'll just click into this and
we'll just put it up here.
All right, so right up here,
these are tabs, so
if you had tabs open you would
see up here a couple tabs, right?
These along the side are line numbers,
you should be fairly
familiar with line numbers.
The current line you're on is gonna have
some sort of extra highlighting to it,
it could display the line number.
I have a unique setting right here that
makes my line numbers look really goofy,
we'll talk about that
here in a little bit.
The blinking square is your cursor, that's
where your current editing positions at.
This big old dark space right
here is called assigned column.
You can have it dynamically toggle on and
off, it can show errors,
it can show if you've edited
it in the gitgutter, right?
But in the end,
that's just called the signed column.
There's also down at the bottom
what file you're currently editing.
And along with that,
also your command bar, or
it will show you what mode you're in
if you're in a mode that has a display.
Now we'll talk about modes and
all that here shortly.
Can I get out of this thing, there we go.
And lastly, there's also what is called
the color column over here on this side.
The color column is something you can or
don't have to have on, the color column is
simply just a way to mark a certain
line number as being too far.
You probably have seen
this in other editors,
I set mine to 80 some people I've met 120,
set it whatever you want it just it just
is a good way to indicate
how far over you are.